GWEN IFILL: A deal is struck, a
Grexit averted -- what Greece
must now do to receive its
third European bailout.
Good evening. I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Also ahead this Monday: A
nuclear agreement again eludes
world powers and Iran. The final
stages of talks drag on.
GWEN IFILL: Plus: doctors on
demand -- the promise of
telemedicine to increase access
to care and cut
health care costs.
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL, Doctor on
Demand: A patient can download
the app on their mobile device,
either laptop, iPhone or tablet.
And if they want to see a
doctor, they just press a
button,
and they will connect to a
doctor that licensed in their
state and can see them over
video.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the darker
side of one of America's most
moral characters, a look
at racism in Harper Lee's second
book, "Go Set a Watchman."
GWEN IFILL: Those are some of
the stories we're covering on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Greece reached a
debt deal with its European
creditors today after an
all-night emergency summit in
Brussels. It agreed to a strict
timetable for enacting
further unpopular austerity
measures in exchange for a third
international bailout.
Now Greek Prime Minister Alexis
Tsipras must push the
cost-cutting proposals through
his
Parliament over the next two
days. We will take a closer look
at the new accord and get
on-the-ground reaction from
Greece's residents after the
news summary.
GWEN IFILL: U.S. and world
markets rallied today as
investors welcomed the news of
the
Greek bailout agreement. On Wall
Street, the Dow Jones industrial
average climbed more
than 217 points to close above
17977. The Nasdaq rose almost 74
points and the S&P 500
added nearly 23.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Another set of
talks taking place in Europe
over Iran's nuclear program
stretched past yet another
deadline today in Vienna. One
ongoing dispute reportedly
involved Iran's status under a
U.N. arms embargo. There'd been
hope that a final deal would
be announced as the 17th day of
negotiations got under way this
morning.
But, later, Iran's foreign
minister, yelling to reporters
from a hotel balcony, indicated
it wouldn't come today.
Still, in Washington, State
Department spokesman John Kirby
remained cautiously optimistic.
REAR ADM. JOHN KIRBY, Pentagon
Press Secretary: There's been
genuine progress made. I think
Secretary Kerry believes that --
and he's said as much -- that
we're close, but there
still remains some sticking
points, some issues that still
need to be resolved. And so we
will just -- we will see where
they go. But our focus is on
what's going on inside the
negotiating room.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kirby added that
an interim nuclear agreement,
which has already been
extended three times in two
weeks, can remain in effect for
as long as necessary.
We will have more on the fate of
the Iranian nuclear deal later
in the program.
GWEN IFILL: Iraqi troops and
Shiite militiamen began a
long-awaited large-scale
military
assault against the Islamic
State today. The operation
targeted the western province of
Anbar two months after Islamic
State fighters seized its
capital, Ramadi. A military
spokesman
made the announcement today
on state television.
BRIG. GEN. YAHYA RASOOL, Iraqi
Army: The military operations
for liberating Anbar from I.S.
militants started at 5:00 a.m.
today, dawn. Our armed forces,
along the Shiite militiamen,
special task troops, federal
police and Anbar tribes, are now
waging pitched battles and
advancing toward their
designated targets.
GWEN IFILL: The launch of the
offensive came as the Islamic
State claimed responsibility
for a series of car bombs and
suicide attacks that struck
Baghdad yesterday. The blasts
killed at least 29 people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, in Yemen, a
Saudi-led coalition airstrike in
the capital, Sanaa,
killed at least 25 civilians and
injured 50 others. Relatives
scrambled to pull victims
from the rubble
early this morning.
The bombing struck multiple
houses in a slum area of the
city, in spite of a
U.N.-brokered
humanitarian truce between
Houthi rebels and the Yemeni
government.
GWEN IFILL: Wisconsin Governor
Scott Walker has become the 15th
Republican to enter the
2016 presidential race. The
second-term governor declared
his candidacy this morning by
tweeting:
"I'm running for president
because Americans deserve a
leader who will fight and win
for
them."
Walker built his national
profile by taking on labor
unions, and surviving a recall
vote
in 2012. He's set to make his
official announcement tonight in
Wisconsin. We will have more on
that later in the program.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama
today commuted the sentences of
46 nonviolent federal prisoners.
The majority of the men and
women were serving time for
offenses involving crack cocaine
or marijuana. The president said
-- quote -- "Their punishments
didn't fit the crime."
He's now issued commutations for
89 convicts during his
presidency. Most were nonviolent
offenders sentenced
for drug crimes.
The Pentagon is preparing to end
its ban on transgender
individuals serving in the U.S.
military. Defense Secretary
Ashton Carter said in a
statement that the policy was
outdated.
He's creating a working group to
conduct a six-month study on the
effects of lifting
the ban. That would give the
military services time to work
through questions like health
care and housing.
GWEN IFILL: And the Boy Scouts
of America took a major step
closer to lifting its ban
on gay adult troop leaders. An
executive committee unanimously
approved a resolution to allow
individual troops to set their
own policies. In May, its
president, former Defense
Secretary
Robert Gates, declared
the ban unsustainable.
The new resolution still must be
ratified at a national executive
board meeting in two
weeks. In 2013, the organization
voted to allow gay youth, but
not adults, in Scouting.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what a third European bailout
means for Greeks; in Vienna,
Iran nuclear negotiations creep
toward conclusion; when doctors
make virtual house calls on
demand;
the week ahead in politics with
Amy Walter and Tamara Keith; an
incredible escape prompts
a manhunt for one of Mexico's
most notorious drug lords; and a
complicated portrait of
Atticus Finch in the companion
novel to "To Kill a
Mockingbird."
JUDY WOODRUFF: The nation of
Greece and its creditors reached
a preliminary deal to avert
immediate financial collapse,
but it demands that the
struggling country make major
concessions
and means continued sacrifice
and hardship for its people.
"NewsHour" special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant has this report.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Prime Minister
Alexi Tsipras emerged after a
long night of bitter
negotiations.
ALEXIS TSIPRAS, Greek Prime
Minister (through translator):
Until the end, we battled to
get an agreement to get the
country back on its feet. We
were faced with a very difficult
decision within hard dilemmas.
We took the responsibility to
decide in order to avert
the most extreme plans by
conservative circles in the
European Union.
MALCOLM BRABANT: German
Chancellor Angela Merkel was one
of those conservatives who
ran a hard bargain with the
Greeks. They seemed ready to
quit until European Council
President
Donald Tusk, who is also
president of Poland, persuaded
them to keep at it.
DONALD TUSK, President, European
Council: The decision gives
Greece the chance to get
back on track with the support
of European partners. It also
avoids the social, economic
and political consequences that
a negative outcome would have
brought.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Meanwhile, in
Athens, pensioners saw no reason
to celebrate, as they queued
up to withdraw money
outside closed banks.
KATERINA MANETI, Greece (through
translator): They're acting
thoughtlessly. Our current
politicians are
experimenting on us.
MAN (through translator):
Tsipras was put in a corner and
he had to make this deal.
We will have to swallow
this and see how it goes.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The
near-bankrupt country will
receive a $95 billion bailout
over three
years, but the deal mandates
tough conditions on Greece, ones
its voters rejected just one
week ago.
The deal calls for streamlined
pensions, raised taxes and
reform to the labor market. Two
hours boat ride from Athens,
dawn broke on the island of
Angistri, with its 1,000
residents
unsure of their future. This has
traditionally been a summer
playground for Athenians, but
cash-poor Greeks have stayed
away over the past five years.
At the small clifftop hotel run
by Nondas Agianozoglou and his
family, there's none
of the tension that exists in
Athens. But this tourist
industry veteran shares his
countrymen's
fury at the perceived harshness
of the measures imposed on
Greece.
NONDAS AGIANOZOGLOU, Owner,
Rosy's Little Village: You can't
force a people that doesn't
make money to cut down his
salaries, his pensions, pay
higher taxes, and pay out his
debt.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But a pensioner
from Holland enjoying the Greek
seaside said his hosts
had long been living
beyond their means.
JAN MEYERS, Dutch Pensioner: A
policeman of 46 years. After 25
years of work, go on pension
with 100 percent of his salary,
it's crazy. There's no country
that can pay that.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The tourist
industry, which is one of
Greece's most important foreign
currency earners, will have to
bear some of the burden of
financing the new bailout
package.
Hotels and restaurants will have
to pay more in sales tax. And
there are fears that this
could drive away vacationers in
what is a highly competitive
Mediterranean market.
MICHALI PANDOU, Chairman,
Angistri Chamber of Commerce:
The other touristic places in
the Mediterranean are already
cheaper than us. And if we try
to increase it, we're going
to get to minimize the tourists
that possibly want to come to
Greece for holidays.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But holidays
are perhaps the last thing on
the minds of many on the
streets of Athens. Left-wing
groups are urging workers to go
on strike in protest against
the bailout deal and they are
organizing demonstrations over
the next coming days.
Their aim is to convince Greek
lawmakers to reject the E.U.
proposal and to trigger Greece's
exit from the Eurozone. The
country's continued presence
within the euro depends on Prime
Minister Tsipras convincing
Parliament to enact emergency
legislation by Wednesday.
He faces a certain revolt from
within his governing coalition,
but he should secure
enough votes to make sure that
Greece remains financially
afloat.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this
is Malcolm Brabant in Greece.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's zero in on
what Greece and the rest of
Europe have agreed to and
the power dynamics around this.
Eswar Prasad watches all of this
as a professor at Cornell
University and a senior fellow
at the Brookings Institution.
He's also worked for the IMF.
Welcome back to the
program, Eswar Prasad.
ESWAR PRASAD, Professor of Trade
Policy, Cornell University: My
pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We just heard
some of the conditions the Greek
people are going to have to live
up to in order to make this
agreement work. What do they
really mean for the Greek
people?
ESWAR PRASAD: This is total
capitulation at one extent to
what the Germans and the others
have demanded.
Greece had agreed to do
basically everything that the
Germans and the others in the
Eurozone
feel is necessary to turn around
the Greek economy, make it more
competitive again. And
some of these things will have
to have been done in any case,
because the Greek labor
markets are sort of frozen up,
the product markets aren't very
competitive, which means
that entry into certain
professions is not very easy.
The tax burden is still very
low. The tax administration is
not good. The public
administration
costs too much. So they have
basically agreed to reform all
of these, in the hope that their
economy can become more
competitive. And in the interim,
the deal is that they will get
some money that will get them
through the next three years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, as you're
suggesting, adjustments in
pensions, higher taxes, what
they're calling
labor market reforms.
What does that mean?
ESWAR PRASAD: That essentially
means that it will be easier to
fire workers. Right now,
it's difficult to shut down
firms, to fire workers.
And the collective bargaining
agreements are not making the
labor market vibrant enough,
which means that firms are very
reluctant to hire workers
because it's very difficult
to fire them. And the wage
structure is also very
complicated and makes it
difficult to
cut wages, although Greek wages
have fallen quite significantly.
So, Greece has actually done a
fair bit in the last few years,
but the problem is not
enough to make the economy
competitive and they still have
a crushing debt burden.
JUDY WOODRUFF: They believe that
this is going to make a
difference, that this is
actually
going to bring down the Greek
debt? They're not getting actual
debt relief, as I understand
it, with this deal.
Is that correct?
ESWAR PRASAD: That's the crucial
issue. The deal on the table
about three weeks ago was
in fact a slightly better one.
And then Prime Minister Tsipras
said he would have a referendum.
The referendum took place
on July 5. And that shattered
the trust that the other
Eurozone countries had in
Greece,
so now they have said you have
to implement some of these
measures and some of these
measures
in fact have to be in
place by this Wednesday.
And then the Greeks will get
some debt relief, again not a
write-down of their debt, but
a longer period over which
they could pay it back.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why did Prime
Minister Tsipras and the rest of
the Greek leadership agree
to this?
ESWAR PRASAD: At this point,
they really had no choice.
Germany and the other hard-line
countries in Europe had made it
very, very clear that
there was no other deal on the
table, and in fact even this
deal came together only
at the very last minute. So the
alternative would have been to
exit the euro. And the
Germans made it clear that they
were willing to consider this
possibility.
So Tsipras was left with no
options. And now he's had to
accept this deal, which is not
a great one for Greece, because
it may help in some ways in
terms of getting the economy
back on track, but I'm not sure
it ensures the economic
viability of Greece within the
Eurozone still.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What happens,
Eswar Prasad, if Greece is not
able to fulfill these reforms,
not able to carry through on
everything that they say they
will do?
ESWAR PRASAD: It is going to be
a very difficult political slog
to do by Wednesday what they
need to do.
If they can do that, they passes
them past one hurdle. But I
think it's still going to
be very difficult because it is
going to be enormous and
wrenching pain in the Greek
economy,
which is going to lead to social
and political instability.
If all of that happens, I think
a very clear line has been drawn
in the sand that if the
reforms are not implemented,
then Greece is going to have to
exit the Eurozone, and it
may well come to that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, if you
look back at the bigger picture
here, what does all
this say about the political
relationship between Greece and
the rest of Europe, the
internal political
dynamics on the continent?
ESWAR PRASAD: It's almost become
a morality play at one level,
with the French view, for
instance, that it's important to
keep the Eurozone together no
matter what the cost,
and the views of the Germans,
the Dutch and the Finns and so
on that if the Eurozone is
to be preserved, all the rules
have to be preserved and
maintained and that giving
Greece
a free pass will not do.
Greece has surrendered some
degree of sovereignty here.
Essentially, it's allowed or
given permission
to the so-called Troika, the
European Commission, the
European Central Bank and the
IMF, to
come back and supervise what the
Greeks are doing. So in that
sense, Greece has basically
said, we are willing to take you
in and you can discipline us and
that we will commit
to do what we are doing.
But Greece essentially has given
away a lot of its political and
economic levers in order
to remain in the Eurozone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But this has
opened up, you're saying, a
significant divide inside the
European
Union itself.
ESWAR PRASAD: This has exposed
very clear rifts within the
European Eurozone.
And I think no matter what
happens to Greece, that's going
to be very difficult to put
together
right now, because it's clear
that there is going to have to
be a reconsideration of the
political governance structure.
I think many of the countries
that feel that Greece got
a difficult deal here are not
going to, I think, suspect
Germany taking the lead on
these issues anymore. So, it is
going to be a fraught time for
the Eurozone ahead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We have been
watching it for days. Now we
know the result. But it will
continue.
Eswar Prasad, we thank you.
ESWAR PRASAD: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: The efforts to reach
an Iran nuclear deal appeared so
close today that Iran's
president
even tweeted about it, calling
it a good beginning. But in no
time at all, that tweet was
deleted
and reports of new
negotiating snags surfaced.
So, the sun set again in Vienna
today with no agreement.
Indira Lakshmanan is covering
the talks for Bloomberg News,
and she joins us now.
Indira, late this afternoon, we
heard there was the announcement
overnight. Then there
wouldn't be an announcement
overnight. This keeps going on.
I wonder what the latest that
you know about why.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN, Bloomberg
News: Yes, it's deja vu all over
again, Gwen.
And if it's been a roller
coaster for the past 17 days,
we're now going into day 18,
and this has been the most
extreme roller coaster in the
last 24 hours. We thought we
were going to have a deal. Then
Foreign Minister Zarif came out
on his balcony, sort of Evita
Peron style. We all yelled up
him and said, will there be a
deal?
He made a motion with his head,
and indicated, no, there would
not be. We're now after midnight
in Vienna, so the negotiators
have blown past through their
fourth deadline in the last
18 days, but the latest reports
we're getting, our sources are
telling us from four different
delegations that it's very, very
likely that there will be an
announcement of a final deal
in the early hours
of the morning.
So we're talking about possibly
as early as pre-dawn Vienna
time, which might be as early
as before midnight
Washington time.
GWEN IFILL: Boy, that's the
latest possible thing. But what
is it that they're trying
to smooth out? What are these
last-minute hangups which people
keep referring to?
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: Right.
Well, I reported 24 hours ago
that that arms embargo issue
actually had been mostly
smoothed
out, and the issue is that, on
the U.N. side, the Iranians
wanted the arms embargo lifted
right away. Now it looks like it
will be a phased process over
the next two to eight
years for lifting that embargo.
But what they have been arguing
about all day today is language
because language matters,
and we have lawyers from seven
different countries and the
building going over literally
every
comma and every T that's crossed
and I that is dotted in 100
pages of documents. So, again,
we're talking about a
100-page-long document with five
technical annexes that is meant
to last for a long time.
Some elements of this deal will
last 10 years, others for 15,
and yet others for 25. So the
U.S. and Iran, in particular,
are really concerned that they
want to get this exactly right.
No one wants to have to go back.
You can't reopen it and
renegotiate it, so it's really
about getting the language right
the first time. And one thing I
want to remind you when we were
here a couple of months ago
from Lausanne, Switzerland,
having a similar conversation
after midnight, you will
remember
that when they actually released
the deal last time, the
framework agreement, the United
States had one set of talking
points and Iran had a different
set of talking points.
GWEN IFILL: Remember that.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: And that
really caused some problems in
the last couple of months
when they have been
trying to negotiate.
So what we understand from both
the United States and the
Iranians this time is, there's
going to be one comprehensive
statement that speaks for both
sides. Imagine how hard that
is, Gwen, to do that, because
both the Americans and the
Iranians are trying to show
their
home audiences that they won. So
how do you come up with language
that says you won in
Tehran and also says you won in
Washington when they're both
facing hard-line audiences
at home?
So, I think a lot of it
has been about words.
GWEN IFILL: You mentioned that
they have now blown through four
deadlines. Do deadlines
matter at all anymore?
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: Well, you
know, the deadlines mattered
insofar as the Obama
administration
has said the deadlines are a
forcing mechanism. They force
people to sit down and actually
make a decision. Apparently, in
this case, they didn't force
them to do that much.
But I think, as John Kerry said,
this can't go on forever. They
can't stay at the negotiating
table forever. Iran has sort of
very cleverly taken that and
turned it on its head by saying,
hey, we face no deadlines, we
will stay here as long as it
takes, and if anyone leaves
the negotiations, it's
their fault, not ours.
That of course puts the United
States on the spot because if
negotiations were to collapse,
Iran could easily say, well,
that's America's fault, they
walked out, we didn't walk out.
So we have had all of the
parties really trying to keep
both United States and Iran at
the
table. A funny moment earlier
today was when Sergei Lavrov,
the Russian foreign minister,
walked into a meeting with the
Zarif, the Iranian foreign
minister, who said, how are
you, Mr. Lavrov,
and he said angry.
He was smiling at the time, but
I'm sure there was more than a
little truth to that, because
the Russians, the Europeans, the
Chinese, they are frustrated.
They want the deal to
be done. They feel like they
have already signed off on it,
and they wish that the Americans
and the Iranians would get their
houses in order, get the wording
straight, so everyone
can move on, go home after 18
days of this and really
two-and-a-half years.
GWEN IFILL: Right. Well, Indira,
I know that sleep is overrated
and you're going to be
up again late tonight waiting on
this last shoe to drop. Thank
you so much for joining
us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Videoconferencing
has become so commonplace that
we have grown comfortable
communicating with one another
through pixels on a screen.
That comfort, combined with
rapid advances in health
monitoring technology, is
fueling
a new boom in telemedicine.
Teladoc, a big player in
providing video and telephone
medical
consults, had an extremely
successful launch when it went
public on the stock market
earlier
this month. It raised more than
$270 million on the first day.
As Hari Sreenivasan explains,
telemedicine is beginning to
transform the way we experience
the medical system. It's the
latest in our Breakthroughs
series on invention and
innovation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A simple
ritual, like gardening on a hot
summer day, is something Tom and
Trisha Uhrhammer don't
take for granted anymore.
TRISHA UHRHAMMER, Wife of
Tom: Can you use some basil?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Just a year
ago, Tom had a massive stroke.
TOM UHRHAMMER, Suffered Stroke:
I was sitting right next door
here in this room watching
TV. Time to go to bed. So I got
up and walked up the stairs, and
I didn't make it. I collapsed
short of the bed.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The paramedics
took Tom, who was paralyzed on
his left side, to nearby
Mercy General Hospital in
Sacramento. With blood seeping
into his skull, creating
enormous
pressure on his brain, time was
of the essence. That's when a
telestroke robot was deployed
to the E.R.
TRISHA UHRHAMMER: Pretty soon,
this machine came toward me, and
in the screen appeared
a doctor. And he said: "Good
evening. My name is Dr. Nee
(ph). I'm a neurologist and I'm
here to examine your husband."
And, lo and behold, that robot
turned around, went around the
bed to the other side and
started examining Tom.
It was remarkable.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dr. Nee was
also able to remotely access
C.T. scans and other vital
data need to quickly determine
Tom's surgical needs. Mercy is
one of 43 Dignity Health
hospitals
in the West using the telestroke
robot, and there are others in
use all over the U.S.
We got a demonstration from Dr.
Asad Chaudhary -- he's the one
on the screen -- and nurse
Eleanor Vigilante.
ELEANOR VIGILANTE, Director of
Emergency Department, Sequoia
Hospital: It's faster for us to
always
use teleneurology, because our
physicians are not 24 hours a
day in the building. So,
we can actually get a physician
to the bedside of a patient
within three to six minutes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And three to
six minutes is the difference
between what?
ELEANOR VIGILANTE: Every minute
that we waste is potentially
more brain function that's
lost.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stroke is the
leading cause of serious
long-term disability in the
United
States. Widespread use of
telemedicine for stroke care is
improving patient outcomes.
Hoping to build on its success
in hospitals, the telehealth
industry is now focused on
bring more basic health care
services directly to patients
wherever they may be.
From the comfort of her San
Francisco home, Dr. Raveena
Rihal is diagnosing and treating
patients for primary care
ailments like sinusitis, pink
eye and bladder infections.
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL, Doctor on
Demand: A patient can download
the app on their mobile device,
either laptop, iPhone or tablet.
And if they want to see a
doctor, they just press a
button,
and they will connect to a
doctor that licensed in their
state and can see them over
video.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Rihal works
for Doctor on Demand, one of a
handful of companies connecting
patients with physicians
almost instantaneously.
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL: Hi there. I'm
Dr. Rihal with Doctor on Demand.
Welcome.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On the day we
visited, Rihal took a call from
Carmen Crandell and her
11-year-old
daughter, Alyksandra McKaymick
(ph), from Naples, Florida.
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL: If you feel
here, do you feel any lumps or
bumps?
CHILD: It feels a little swollen
in here, just a little bit.
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL: And now I
want you to bring the camera
real close to your mouth and say
ah.
CHILD: Can we see?
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL: Yes. I got a
good look there. It looks red,
but I don't see any white
patches.
You can point the camera in the
back of your throat and get a
really good look at tonsils.
It's surpassed my expectations,
the technology piece of it, and
I think the future holds
even more with all of the
wearable devices and all the
information we're going to be
able to transmit soon.
HARI SREENIVASAN: By the end of
a 13-minute exam, which cost
$40, Alyksandra was diagnosed
with viral sinusitis and her
prescriptions were sent to a
nearby pharmacy electronically.
Why did you choose this service?
Why not just go to a doctor
that's in Naples?
CARMEN CRANDELL, Mother: You
can't get an appointment. If
your child is sick and you
call them, they say they can't
see them until the next week.
It's pointless. Then you end
up at the emergency care clinic
and that costs $100 for your
co-pay. So why not pay $40 and
do it right then?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Beyond the
convenience factor, Doctor on
Demand's chief medical officer,
Dr. Pat Basu, says the cost
savings on a large scale add up.
DR. PAT BASU, Chief Medical
Officer, Doctor on Demand: In
the United States, there's a
total of about 1.3 billion total
cases where people walk in to
see a doctor. Of the type
that Doctor on Demand is ideal
for, you're talking about 300
million to 500 million that
we can treat.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At a rate of
$40 per telemedicine visit vs.
an average of $1,000 for a trip
to the emergency room or about
$300 for urgent care, Basu says
the potential savings are
enormous.
DR. PAT BASU: Right off the bat,
that would save $25 billion to
the U.S. health care system.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Such figures
have caught the attention of
insurance companies. In April,
UnitedHealthcare, the largest
private insurer in the U.S.,
launched a partnership with
three
telemedicine companies,
NowClinic, American Well and
Doctor on Demand, to cover
video-based
physician visits just as it
covers in-person visits.
Health industry observers say
it's the strongest sign yet that
telemedicine is entering the
mainstream.
DR. PAT BASU: Now we have over
20 million patients who have
access to Doctor on Demand
through insurance. On the
government side, Medicaid and
Medicare, that progression has
still not fully occurred, but we
are in conversations with state
Medicaid agencies and national
Medicare to cover this.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dr. Abraham
Verghese, vice chair of
Stanford's School of Medicine,
applauds
the efficiencies and cost-saving
telemedicine will bring, but
he's concerned about preserving
the doctor-patient relationship.
DR. ABRAHAM VERGHESE, Vice
Chair, Stanford School of
Medicine: A very important, I
would
say ministerial, function of
being a physician is to be
attentive, is to be present, is
to
listen to that story, is to
locate the symptoms on that
person of that patient, not on
some
screen, not on some lab
result, but on them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Do you ever
feel like the you're missing
something by not being able
to touch the patient?
DR. RAVEENA RIHAL: No. If I was
taking care of heart failure and
diabetes and things like
that, I think I would feel
really uncomfortable doing that
over video. But the more common
things that I'm taking care of,
I feel good about what I'm
doing, and I feel like I
actually
connect with the
patients really well.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Even though
Doctor on Demand chooses not to
allow its home-based doctors
to treat serious illnesses,
outdated regulations don't
necessarily prevent them from
doing
that. Verghese says the industry
needs some clear national
guidelines.
DR. ABRAHAM VERGHESE: I have no
doubt that we're going to learn
a lot more about the
blessings and pitfalls of
telemedicine as more and more
people start to do it. And I
suspect we're going to realize
that it's very good for some
things. And there will be a
fairly hazardous tiny little
live-wire area that perhaps we
will develop guidelines that
you don't go near.
HARI SREENIVASAN: National
regulation won't be easy, as all
50 states have their own unique
laws governing the practice of
telemedicine, something Christa
Natoli, associate director
of the Center for Telehealth and
e-Health Law, spends her time
studying.
CHRISTA NATOLI, Associate
Director, Center for Telehealth
and e-Health Law: States really
focus a lot on the
physician-patient relationship
and physical examination, but
states that
are clear will say and define
what an appropriate examination
looks like.
States that are vague do not
define what appropriate means in
any context. It's in the gray
area
where states are silent on these
issues that could potentially
lead to patient harm.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As
policy-makers determine how to
define and regulate the
industry, there
are a growing number of patients
who've experienced virtual
medicine firsthand.
In the year since his stroke,
Tom Uhrhammer has fully
recovered. He and his wife,
Trisha,
are grateful to be back
to their normal routine.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Hari
Sreenivasan in Northern
California.
GWEN IFILL: And then there were
15 -- Republican candidates for
president, that is.
So, as the 2016 campaign begins
to take final shape, we look at
the personalities, the policy,
and of course, the purse strings
this Politics Monday with Tamara
Keith of NPR and Amy Walter
of The Cook Political Report.
Let's start by looking at the
money, the most important part
of this, right, in some
respects.
AMY WALTER, The Cook
Political Report: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: The top four
candidates in terms of money
raised, super PAC money as well
as
nonprofits in one case, and just
regular money over the transom,
Jeb Bush with $114 million.
This is just since they
announced for president. Hillary
Clinton with $60.6 million, Ted
Cruz
$47 million, and Marco
Rubio with $43.8 million.
Of course, as we just mentioned,
there are 11 others now in the
race. But as these four
line up, where is the money
coming from and what is this
telling us about the race?
AMY WALTER: In almost every
case, the super PAC is more than
the candidates actually raise.
In fact, Hillary Clinton is the
only candidate who has raised
more as a candidate than her
super PAC raised.
It's going to bring up a couple
of issues. The first is, there
used to be the thing in
politics where you dropped out
of the race after your money ran
out, and your money would
run out because you weren't
winning enough, you didn't have
enough momentum. Now there
are super PACs very flush with
cash that can keep candidates
going long after maybe their
expiration date.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Individuals,
they can keep...
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Ted Cruz has really three
good friends or three super
PACs that can keep him going.
And, you know, it used to be
that there was the dollar
primary and you could look at,
well, whose fund-raising dollars
were the highest? It's hard to
even know what to make
of these numbers, because some
rich person could come out of
nowhere, create a nonprofit,
we wouldn't even know where the
money came from, and blow
everybody else out of the water.
AMY WALTER: But there is one
really interesting component to
this, and that's why 2016 will
be fascinating to watch.
The amount of money that Jeb
Bush has coming from his super
PAC is about $103 million.
That's where -- the bulk of that
114 is coming from super PAC.
They cannot coordinate with
Jeb Bush. They are going to be
making decisions that normally a
campaign will be making.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: Now, super PACs have
been very good at doing one
thing, which is they're
a destroying machine. Right?
They're there to like eat up
their opponents.
Can they be a pro-Bush entity as
well and do the sorts of things
that a campaign normally
does? We don't know yet.
We have never seen it.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let's talk
about someone who is not in the
top four, but could well
be because of the beneficence of
at least a couple of very rich
people who are keeping
an eye on him, and we just a
little bit reported earlier that
Scott Walker, even as we speak,
has announced he's
running for president.
Let's listen in a little bit
about he said today in Waukesha,
Wisconsin, his hometown,
introducing himself to voters.
GOV. SCOTT WALKER (R-WI),
Presidential Candidate: We need
new, fresh leadership,
leadership
with big, bold ideas from
outside of Washington, the kind
of leadership that knows how to
get
things done, like we have
done here in Wisconsin.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
GOV. SCOTT WALKER: Since I have
been governor, we took on the
unions and we won.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
GWEN IFILL: Scott Walker, king
of the Midwest., another
governor getting into the race.
What
do we know about him and how
does he fit into this field,
Tamara?
TAMARA KEITH: He's definitely
here pointing to his executive
experience. He won three
elections in four years in what
he likes to remind everyone is a
blue state.
Although, right now, he is
gunning for Iowa and he's all
about winning Iowa, he also
likes
to paint himself as someone who
could bring people together at
some point, though, right
now, his message in the speech
is very, very conservative, a
red meat kind of speech.
GWEN IFILL: Yet his wife and his
sons have been giving interviews
in which they have
been sounding a little bit more
moderate, at least on one key
social issue that we have
been talking a lot about
lately, which is gay marriage.
AMY WALTER: Gay marriage. In
fact, his sons gave an interview
where they said, we have
talked to our father about the
fact that we're in different
places on this issue.
GWEN IFILL: Which a lot
of American families are.
AMY WALTER: Well, that's exactly
what I was going to say, is that
that is exactly where
the American family is right
now, where you have younger
generations saying, this isn't
a big deal, older generations
still saying they don't really
particularly like the idea,
they're not comfortable with it.
It actually mirrors very much
where America is on this issue,
even though he personally,
Scott Walker, is to the right of
the majority of Americans on
this issue.
GWEN IFILL: Another big issue
which has completely consumed
this race in the last week or so
is immigration, but immigration
as seen through eyes of one
Donald Trump.
Hillary Clinton gave a big
speech just today about the
economy and what she plans to do
as president, but she also spoke
this afternoon to the National
Council of La Raza, an activist
Hispanic group, and this is what
she had to say about Donald
Trump's -- Donald Trump's
words on immigration.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: I have
just one word for Mr. Trump.
Basta.
Enough.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: And to
all the other Republicans
running for president, why did
it take weeks for most of you to
speak out? You're normally such
a talkative bunch.
GWEN IFILL: OK.
AMY WALTER: She's
just loving it.
GWEN IFILL: She is loving it.
And that's the point, right?
AMY WALTER: She is
loving it. Right.
Her campaign had said early on,
long before she announced her
candidacy, that part of
the reason they were holding out
on announcing was they said, we
want the Republicans to
fight amongst themselves, the
attention won't be on us, it
will be on them.
Well, that didn't happen until
now. And Donald Trump has become
-- he's a powder keg, and
the closer you get to him, the
more likely it is that he is
going to explode. And she's
hoping that he explodes and does
some collateral damage to the...
GWEN IFILL: Powder
keg. Loose cannon.
(CROSSTALK)
TAMARA KEITH: Lindsey Graham
called him a wrecking ball for
the Republican Party.
GWEN IFILL: Yes, wrecking ball.
The euphemisms are just flying.
TAMARA KEITH: There are many
terms that are being used.
GWEN IFILL: But what does that
say for Republicans? I mean, we
know the Democrats love this,
but
are the Republicans loving it?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, I think the
people who showed up for Donald
Trump's event in Arizona,
4,000 people packed into an
arena -- he said it was 10,000
-- but, you know, they support
him.
He is speaking to, certainly, an
undercurrent that is very
concerned about illegal
immigration,
and he is saying exactly what
they want to hear. I don't know
what it means for the Republican
field. I think that this is this
identity crisis that they're
dealing with, where they
want to win Latino voters. There
are some that want immigration
reform, there are some
that absolutely don't want it,
and he is just, like, putting
that family feud right out into
the open.
GWEN IFILL: Does that affect the
behavior or the immediate
actions of new candidates
like John Kasich or like Scott
Walker, who we saw get in the
race today? Do they have
to calibrate their introduction
to the American voter based on
this loose cannon piece?
AMY WALTER: Well, it sure
doesn't seem like Scott Walker
did. He came out making the case
that he's been making and wants
to continue to make for the
campaign, which is, I'm an
executive, I have won in a blue
state, and taking a very
conservative position on almost
every social, cultural
and economic issue.
So they're hoping just to ignore
him, because the problem with
Donald Trump is, if you engage
him, it will only make things
worse. It's like -- it's a
little bit what you were taught
as a kid to not engage the
bully, because they will
continue to pick on you.
GWEN IFILL: And immigration,
however, is going to continue to
be an issue. It's how the party
deals with it.
TAMARA KEITH: Absolutely.
And Democrats feel like this is
an issue where they have
strength. And certainly Hillary
Clinton very early on in her
campaign came out strongly in
favor of the president's
executive
actions, in part because she was
trying to set a trap, trying to
get Republicans to have
to talk about thing that they
don't really agree on, whereas
on the Democratic side,
it's pretty well agreed there is
a Democratic orthodoxy and move
right ahead.
GWEN IFILL: Well, we're going to
watching all of that and also
what the labor unions
do now that Scott Walker is in
the case. That is going to
crystallize that issue.
But we will talk about
that next week.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Amy Walter, Tamara
Keith, thank you both very much.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mexican officials
have launched a nationwide
manhunt, after that country's
most-infamous drug lord escaped
from a maximum security prison
on Saturday. The escape
triggered
a wave of criticism that
authorities had let public enemy
number one in Mexico's drug war
get away.
William Brangham has the latest.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This abandoned
house is where Mexican
authorities say drug kingpin
Joaquin Guzman, known as El
Chapo, escaped to freedom.
Guzman was being held in this
maximum security prison, but on
Saturday night, he reportedly
walked into a shower stall, and
never came out. Officials
discovered a long narrow tunnel
had been dug under the prison
that ran nearly a mile away to
the empty house.
Guzman is the most notorious
drug lord in Mexico, and
possibly the world. He runs the
Sinaloa Cartel, a global network
that traffics marijuana, heroin,
cocaine, and methamphetamines.
They're also responsible for
thousands of killings in
Mexico's brutal near-decade-old
drug war.
This was Guzman's second escape
from a Mexican prison. He
escaped in 2001, but was
recaptured
in 2014. That arrest was held up
as proof by Mexican President
Enrique Pena Nieto that
his nation was finally cracking
down on the cartels and reining
in the violence. But this
second escape was seen as
particularly damaging for the
president, who was on a state
visit
to France when the news broke.
ENRIQUE PENA NIETO, Mexican
President (through translator):
I am deeply shocked by what
happened.
This is undoubtedly an affront
to the Mexican government, but I
am also confident that Mexican
institutions will rise to the
challenge, with the strength and
determination to recapture
this criminal.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: U.S. officials
had long wanted to extradite
Guzman to the United States
to stand trial, but Mexican
authorities resisted the
transfer.
Today, White House spokesman
Josh Earnest said the U.S. is
helping in the search.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary: He faces very serious
crimes, not just in
Mexico, but he's been charged
with some very serious crimes in
the United States as well.
The United States will support
the efforts of the Mexican
government to bring him to
justice.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Back in
Mexico, officials are still
investigating the details of El
Chapo's escape and questioning
dozens of prison employees. In
the meantime, a massive manhunt
continues.
For more on that manhunt and the
importance of Guzman to the drug
trade, I'm joined now
by Alfredo Corchado, Mexico
bureau chief for The Dallas
Morning News.
Alfredo, drug kingpins don't get
any bigger than El Chapo. Mexico
celebrated when they
first caught him. The U.S.
wanted to extradite him. So, now
he is free, he is on the loose.
How big a deal is this?
ALFREDO CORCHADO, Mexico Bureau
Chief, The Dallas Morning News:
It's a huge deal, especially
-- I mean, this is the worst
nightmare for Enrique Pena
Nieto, the Mexican president.
It's the worst nightmare for
U.S.-Mexico cooperation.
I have been talking to officials
for the last couple of days and
they're just -- they're
still in shock. Even though,
when he was arrested, when he
was taken to a Mexican prison,
they
kept warning of this
possibility, this very
possibility. So I think people
on both sides,
it's sort of like the air has
been sucked out of them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I wonder if
you could just tell us a little
bit about the elaborateness
of this breakout, how
he actually got out.
ALFREDO CORCHADO: Well, the
reports of it -- and it's too
early to know the whole story,
but the reports we're hearing is
that the plan started almost
immediately after he was
arrested.
It was an escape tunnel very
much like the ones he's built
throughout the Mexico-Sonora
border, elaborate, had air
conditioning. It had -- there
was even a motorcycle rail. You
talk to officials and they say
there is no way to explain that
this was a sole act. How
do you dig that much dirt
out and not make any noise?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And also how
did authorities not know this?
As you say, this was a --
building
tunnels was a trademark of the
cartel that he used to run. How
could they not know a
mile-long tunnel was being built
into a maximum security prison?
ALFREDO CORCHADO: At this point,
30 people have been arrested and
are being questioned.
The real question is, how
high does the corruption go?
I mean, who knew at not just the
prison level, but the state
government, the federal
government
-- who were the people involved?
Again, it's too early to answer
those questions, but there
is plenty of suspicion, there is
plenty of names that are going
back and forth. I think
we're in for a really tough
time for the next few months.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's talk a
little bit more about those
ripple effects between Mexico
and the U.S. We have a long
relationship trying to fight the
drug war between our two
countries.
What does this do to
that relationship?
ALFREDO CORCHADO: In talking to
people today and yesterday, they
said this sets back the
relationship five, 10 years. I
mean, Mexico is not Canada. You
don't have that natural
sense of cooperation, the level
of trust. They have been working
very hard at it, especially
with -- during the Merida
Initiative -- the Merida
Initiative, which is the U.S.
way of
helping Mexico
attack the cartels.
But it was also a way for both
sides to come together to build
more intelligence-sharing.
And that's one of the big
questions today, is how much did
the U.S. government, how much
did the Mexican government share
with the Guzman side as they try
-- as they were preparing
to judge him or to extradite him
to the United States? How much
does he know? How much more
does he know? Who's at
risk at this point?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The president
of Mexico obviously made a big
show of this arrest and
other actions he'd taken showed
he was being tough on the
cartels. Now that El Chapo is
out, what does this do to his
administration and his ability
to govern?
ALFREDO CORCHADO: Well, at the
time, this worked very, very
nicely with the Mexican
narrative, that things were
looking up for Mexico, that
there were all these economic
reforms and that he
was turf on cartels.
Who better than to make that
point than going after the
biggest drug lord in the world,
El Chapo Guzman? I think that is
really the biggest hit. This is
an incredible blow, a
humiliation to the Mexican
president and an embarrassment
to the Mexican president.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Is there any
sense, now that El Chapo is on
the outside, how quickly
he could be back in control and
calling shots with the cartel?
ALFREDO CORCHADO: That's
unknown, but it's -- there's
been a big fight, internal fight
within the Sinaloa Cartel.
It will be interesting to see
how that works out. The Mexican
government has been saying
that the cartels are now down to
two, two major cartels, the
Sinaloa Cartel, another
cartel from Jalisco. It will be
interesting to see how --
whether he -- El Chapo can just
come in and take over.
I think it will still be a big
fight. His goal is to try to
control the Sinaloa Cartel,
but more than a
year has gone by.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Alfredo Corchado of The Dallas
Morning News, thank you very
much for joining us.
ALFREDO CORCHADO:
Thanks, William.
GWEN IFILL: It has been treated
as one of the major literary
events of the year: the
publication of Harper
Lee's second novel.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: The first
surprise was the existence of
the book itself. That brought
huge national interest. And
bookstores across the country
have fielded record pre-orders
and many are planning
release parties.
It also raised questions along
the way about whether longtime
reclusive author Harper Lee,
now 89, had the mental acuity
to approve publication.
In a film that aired on PBS'
"American Masters," her
publisher, Michael Morrison,
described
the moment he was first
given the manuscript.
MICHAEL MORRISON, HarperCollins:
I didn't tell anybody about it.
I locked it in my drawer.
At the end of the day, I put it
in an interoffice envelope and
carried it home and kept
thinking,
please God, don't let this be
the day I get hit by a bus or
mugged. Went home that night,
read the whole thing, and just
fell in love with it from the
first sentence.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, with its
release comes a new surprise:
the portrayal of Atticus Finch,
beloved in "To Kill a
Mockingbird" and indelibly
played by Gregory Peck in the
film, as a lawyer
defending a black man from false
rape allegations in a deeply
segregated Alabama town in the
1930s.
In "Go Set a Watchman," the
character Atticus, now 72 years
old, is a man who's attended
Klan meetings and says to his
daughter: "Do you want Negroes
by the carload in our schools
and churches and theaters? Do
you want them in our world?"
"Watchman," while set 20 years
after "Mockingbird," was
actually written first. Lee's
editors
encouraged her to transform the
story about the adult Jean
Louise Finch into one narrated
by the character's younger
self, known as Scout.
And we're joined now by Wayne
Flynt, professor emeritus at
Auburn University and a close
personal friend of Harper Lee,
and Natasha Trethewey, who read
and reviewed the new book
for The Washington Post.
"NewsHour" viewers will, of
course, remember Natasha for the
stories she did with us during
her tenure as poet laureate.
So, welcome back, Natasha.
Let me start with you and ask,
before we get into larger
meanings and readings, were you
surprised by what you found?
NATASHA TRETHEWEY, Former U.S.
Poet Laureate: Well, I was
surprised, Jeff.
I was surprised by the way that
we were getting a different kind
of depth of character of
Atticus than we'd seen before in
"Mockingbird" and surprised
about what kind of character
that was.
JEFFREY BROWN: And in what
way? What did you see?
NATASHA TRETHEWEY: Well, we get
to know him, I think, with more
contradictions and complexities,
which, of course, I think
makes him more human to us.
We get to see that, even as he
is the person that we know from
"Mockingbird" who believes
in justice for all and making
sure that people get a fair
trial, that he also can maintain
some deeply ingrained and
unexamined notions of racial
difference.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Wayne Flynt,
the novel is a woman who, like
Harper Lee herself, comes
back to visit her small town
from living in New York. It's
been speculated that Atticus
Finch is based on her father.
What light can you shed on that
and how we see this new
portrayal?
WAYNE FLYNT, Auburn University:
I think all fiction to some
degree is autobiographical.
And I certainly think Coleman
Lee is the prototype. And I also
think perhaps in some ways, he's
the prototype of what we have in
"Go Set a Watchman." Fathers are
perfect between 6 and
9. At 26, for most of us,
they're not so perfect anymore.
JEFFREY BROWN: Did the portrayal
ring true to you, ring true to
your own experience or
the experience you
knew with Harper Lee?
WAYNE FLYNT: Absolutely.
I was 17 in 1956, when she wrote
this book. And I was having the
same kind of problems
with my father. I, like her, had
slipped the bonds in terms of my
culture in terms of race,
also partly for the same reason
she had. She'd read the Bible
too much and she felt the
Southern
church was terribly flawed in
its understanding of race.
So, processing all that racial
change between '49 and '56 in
New York City, I think she
had real problems with her
father, who wasn't moving on
race nearly as quickly as Harper
and her sister Alice
in Monroeville were.
JEFFREY BROWN: Natasha
Trethewey, you wrote in your
review, we have this far more
complicated
now of a beloved American
figure, character in culture.
You saw resonances up to today,
right?
NATASHA TRETHEWEY: That's right.
You know, I agree very much with
Wayne, too. I know experiencing
that disillusionment of
my own father over the years.
And so reading "Mockingbird" and
"Go Set a Watchman" just
made that personal experience
vivid for me all over again.
But I saw, also, in it, because
she was writing the book in the
aftermath of the Brown decision,
a lot of conversation about the
courts making the Brown decision
and the South feeling dominated
yet again, being told what to
do, the issue of states' rights,
the way that we're talking
about the issue of the flag, the
Confederate Flag, because, of
course, in states like Georgia
and South Carolina, the flag was
raised or incorporated into the
state flag in order
to protest that Brown decision
and the courts and the federal
government's enforcement of
the new law.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, Wayne Flynt,
what about there in Alabama, the
resonance up to today?
WAYNE FLYNT: Well, I think there
are still the vestiges of racism
that are here, I think
the differences between those
who voted for Barack Obama and
those who voted for his
opponent.
Alabama had the sharpest racial
divide of any state in the
union, so I think the vestiges
are still there. And -- but we
process this through family,
community. We have to decide
whether we're going to make our
separate peace and go someplace
else, where we don't have
to bother with all these issues,
or whether we stay here and
fight to make Alabama better.
And I think that was her -- the
issue for her. It's interesting
that her sister Alice
stayed and fought and tried to
integrate Monroeville Methodist
Church and change her
denomination.
Nelle decided to give up on
Alabama and left. And I
understand both those options.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let me just stay
with you, Wayne Flynt. I have to
ask you the question
about everything that was raised
when this all came out about
what Harper Lee, what she
agreed to, how much she
understood about what is going
on. What can you tell us?
WAYNE FLYNT: One of her
wonderful lines was, "Same damn
town, same damned people as I
wrote
about in 'Mockingbird.'"
JEFFREY BROWN: Meaning what?
WAYNE FLYNT: Meaning that there
is a lot of provincialism, a lot
of small-mindedness.
They don't much like Nelle's
lawyer, who is the ultimate
outsider. She's Catholic. Her
grandfather fought in the Union
army against the Confederacy.
She didn't belong.
And I'm afraid, Jeff, that the
greatest concentration of
neurologists in the United
States are in
Monroeville, and they can all
diagnose dementia without ever
having met Nelle or talked to
her in the last five years.
JEFFREY BROWN: Nelle, of course,
is the name of Harper Lee,
right, that she goes by. You
all know her as Nelle.
WAYNE FLYNT: Yes, correct.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
WAYNE FLYNT: Correct.
JEFFREY BROWN: Natasha, let me
ask you just what about in the
new book? What does the
new book tell us about her as a
writer? What can readers take
from it?
NATASHA TRETHEWEY: Well, I mean,
the first thing that we can take
from it is getting
to see something about the
process that a writer goes
through, creating a first draft
and then working toward changing
that first draft into the book
that it later becomes,
and, in this case, a Pulitzer
Prize-winning novel.
So, getting to see the draft,
something that began it, is
exciting, because you know that
it didn't begin perfectly, the
way that it ended up. I think it
also lets us see the
way that she was timely in her
concerns, that she was trying to
write a book in the moment
that was contending with what
was happening all across South.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, a new
take on an American classic.
Natasha Trethewey, Wayne
Flynt, thank you both so much.
GWEN IFILL: Amazing story.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow evening. For all
of us at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.